Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
The scariest memories
is being taken away.
I was taken when I
was six years old.
I didn't understand why...
When we spoke our language,
we were punished.
Would hit me with a broom.
Always punished for...
for speaking our language.
Drove out of here crying.
A lot of crying families.
Because I was so scared.
These people talk all the time,
and expected me to do the same.
Told me many hearts beating
together makes us stronger.
They said I should tell my story,
that you can't understand
where you're going
if you don't understand
where you've been.
The coughing sick.
He got it from school.
We're going where the white
man can't find the boys.
My brother ran away
from the school.
The white officers wouldn't
stop looking for him.
My parents had been taken
to school as children,
and they were never the same.
My grandmother insisted
we head north, to our
family's ancestral land.
It's a beautiful place.
I told you I would take
you to a safe place.
We are all spirit. We
are part of this lake.
The white missionaries
named this place
God's Lake.
That's what they call it.
And we call it
Manitou Gameeng.
But now, no one is here.
Why?
She's telling stories.
Non.
It's true.
What would happen to them?
A powerful presence
drove them away.
But our people said
prayers in the Old Talk
Carried Spirit Plates
into the trees
and your great-grandfather laid
a tobacco offering
high up on that cliff.
The spirits of the lake
are pleased we are here.
That's blasphemy.
We've got to give thanks to Jesus.
Your Jesus never
fished these waters.
I'm never going to the school.
Then make sure they
never catch you.
They won't.
I run too fast.
And... I'll hit them with stones.
Wait.
That one's special.
You should keep it.
My people are the Anishinabeg,
the Fish Clan of the
Northern Ojibway.
We sprang forth intact
from the womb of our
mother, the Earth...
Our cheekbones cut from
the granite ridges
that rise above our homeland.
Her heartbeat thrums in our ears.
We were her stewards
and protectors...
but we were forced
beyond the influence
of our legends.
We will honour him.
We will care for him.
We will take him to the high place
like the ancestors
did long time ago.
He's our son. Not yours.
We're taking him to the priests
so he can get to heaven.
You'll be taken be the white
man's drink and never come back.
You'll never come back.
Come with us?
I won't come.
Look after Saul.
We'll be back soon.
Mama.
Papa.
I watched and waited...
through fall,
till the sky turned to the
pale, washed-out blue
of early winter.
Where did my parents go?
They are not coming back.
We must leave.
Go down to Minaki, that's
where my relatives live.
It's a three day journey,
we'll stay there for winter.
If we stay here, we will die.
We must leave.
I never saw my parents again...
and I still don't know
what happened to them.
"Keewatin"...
that's the name of the North Wind.
The old ones gave it a name
because they believed it was
alive, a being, like all things.
It descended upon us
like a slap of a hand...
sudden and vindictive.
Nookmis.
There is a road up ahead.
What about you?
With all my being,
I will stay warm.
We've got to keep moving.
Chew on this, it will help.
Almost there.
We made it, there's the road.
Don't stop.
Nookmis.
Nookmis...
You have to leave her, son.
Nookmis.
She's gone.
Calm down, son.
Nookmis.
I read once
there are holes in the universe
that swallow all light,
all bodies.
In what seemed like an instant,
the world I had known was replaced
by an ominous black cloud.
That's mine.
That's mine. That's mine.
Sit still. Sit still.
Sit still.
Stop it.
Stand up.
Stand. Now.
What's your name?
Saul.
You speak English. Very good.
My father taught me.
And he gave you a
fine Biblical name.
What is your name?
I want to go home.
In English, please.
Let's try again. What's your name?
Do you know it?
Lonnie.
You'll need something
more suitable than that.
All right, from now on,
your name is Aaron.
Tell him.
He says your new name is Aaron.
I have a name. My
father's. Lonnie.
He says his...
He says "Lonnie"
is his dad's name.
The Lord God is your father now.
Your human father has
nothing more to offer you.
He's a trapper.
He says he's a trapper.
He's a heathen.
He's Ojibway.
Aaron, our goal here is to help
you succeed in this world,
so you have to learn English.
Sorry, son.
That's a good boy.
Sorry, Father.
You're disgusting.
Look at this.
Look at the filthy mess you made.
Enough.
That's no help to him.
Who are you to say?
Leave this to me.
Gather your sheets and
take them to the laundry.
Give us this day our daily bread,
and forgive us our trespasses
as we forgive those who
trespass against us,
and lead us not into temptation,
but deliver us from evil. Amen.
In the name of the
Father, and of the Son,
and of the Holy Ghost. Amen.
Just like home.
At least you don't
have to chew it.
Good morning, Father.
I don't like it.
No.
You have to go back.
No, Katherine.
Here she comes. Let go.
Hey. No. No.
No, no. I don't want
to go back down there.
That's enough. Sit down.
Turn around. Eat your food,
or you'll be sent downstairs.
You know where she goes.
Yes, Sister.
Louder.
Behold the Lamb of God...
behold He who takest away
the sins of the world.
Blessed are they who are called
to the supper of the Lamb.
They called it a school,
but it was never that.
The Body of Christ.
There were no grades
or examinations.
The only test was our
ability to endure.
I expect you to learn
this for tomorrow.
Psst.
All of it.
Anish. Anish.
Stand up.
This is the third time this week
I've heard you speaking Ojibway.
Come here.
The Good God gave you this mouth.
He gave you language.
It is a very grave sin
to corrupt these sacred gifts
with falsehood and deceit.
Open.
Go see Father Gaston
in the office.
Forgive me, Sister, but the
boy is already suffering.
Soon enough you'll realise the
importance of consistency
in building discipline and trust.
I was taught that if
you win their hearts,
you win their minds.
And what other theoretical drivel
do they teach you at the
seminary, Father Gaston?
The bough that doesn't
bend will break, Sister.
We'll see what Father Quinney
has to say about that.
I have a secret place
for us to go tomorrow.
Meet us outside.
Let's go.
My grandmother had always
referred to the universe
as "the Great Mystery."
Mystery fills us
with awe and wonder.
It is the foundation of humility,
and humility is the
foundation of all learning.
So we do not seek to unravel this.
We honour it by letting
it be that way forever.
Hey.
Waabooz.
His leniency is in
clear contravention
of our ideals and practises.
There's a difference between
leniency and human kindness.
It isn't kind to deprive
children of guidance.
You're quite right, Sister.
That is our mission, after all,
but there are a lot of
ways to achieve this goal.
Sister, this winter
you'll see some changes.
I'm going to provide the children
with a new outdoor activity.
What's he talking about?
A little higher, please.
What're you making?
An ice rink.
For skating...
and hockey.
What's that?
You'll see...
soon enough.
Look what they're making.
Let me see.
Rebecca...
Rebecca.
You got to let go.
No.
Come on, Katherine.
Don't, they'll lock you up again.
Hurry. They're coming. Please
don't. You got to let go.
She's back with you again.
Rebecca, you know
why we forbid this.
Because it makes her weak?
And?
She clings to me instead of
the Good God, our Father.
Put the little one in Contrition.
No. No, please.
You promised to
control her, Rebecca.
Sister. Please let her
go. Please let her go.
Rebecca.
Our Lord, who was crucified,
died, and was buried.
The third day, he rose again...
Your mistake?
Jesus only arose once.
You suffer from the sin
of pride, Rebecca.
Go to the corner and
quietly continue.
Our Father, who art in heaven...
Saul.
Stand and say the Lord's Prayer.
Our Father...
How...
Who...
Who art in Heaven,
hallowed...
be thy name...
Okay, but let's keep
it simple, okay?
Let's start half speed.
Here we go.
Quick, quick, quick.
You look like you've never seen
people skate before, Saul.
I don't like games much.
Just watch.
There's a genuine rhythm
underneath all this mayhem.
Once you grasp the rules,
you'll start to see it.
I see it already.
You do?
It's cleared back
into Canada's zone.
Here they are, four of
them out over the line.
Peyton, he cleared
it in the left side.
MacGuiness has it, 27 seconds,
there it is, a break,
and he scores.
Yes.
I want to learn to skate.
Sorry, Saul, you can't.
Father Quinney only allows
the older boys to play.
19 minutes, 33 seconds.
You don't have to tell him.
Rules are rules.
If I break them for you, it
could ruin it for everybody.
Peyton comes away with it.
Up to Burns...
I can be the one to
look after the ice.
I'll do it before
anybody wakes up.
Nobody will know.
He fakes the shot and
sends it to MacGuiness,
but the shot goes
wide into the corner.
Will you keep up your
studies and chores?
All right, then.
Canada wins it, three to nothing.
All right, boys.
That's it, back to the dorm.
The rink became my escape...
the ice, my obsession...
the game...
my survival.
Blessed are those who are called
to the supper of the Lamb.
Yes.
Was that Saul I saw out on the
ice this morning, first thing?
Yes, Father. He's helping me.
He's doing the morning
maintenance on the ice rink.
And he's in charge of
the equipment locker.
As long as he isn't playing.
He's too young.
Thank you, Father.
Okay, let's try it. Here we go.
Ah.
Tommy?
I'm all right.
Let me see.
Doesn't look good, boys.
But Father, we need him
for the game tomorrow.
Try not to stand on it.
Let me in.
Can you skate?
When did you learn?
By myself, after
shovelling the ice.
All right. Let's see
what you can do.
Yeah.
Oh.
How did you learn to do that?
From those games on TV.
That was a pretty snazzy move.
You taught yourself that?
Yeah.
He's too young and too small
to be playing hockey.
Father, he's the best
player on the rink.
The others look up to him.
No child is so special that it
warrants breaching our rules.
I understand...
But still...
Saul.
Yes. Yeah.
I found a way out.
We can run away.
I got a hockey game.
We'll go in the bust.
Trap a beaver and make a fire.
I got to play.
We can find my dad.
We'll make a camp
and sleep outside.
That'd be good but Lonnie,
At breakfast I'll
meet you in front.
Come on.
I can't.
Sorry, Lonnie.
I got to go.
Now, listen.
This is our team's
first organised game.
The other team is skilled,
and they've been playing games
like this since they were six.
So you go out there, play
for fun, play as a team.
You ready?
Yeah.
Now, let's go, boys.
Come on.
Saul... you ready?
Go.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Don't let him get it.
Yeah.
Oh.
The game loves you, Saul.
Well done.
Come on.
Come.
Lonnie?
It's all I could get.
Time to go, Saul.
Let him out. Please.
I can't.
Please?
He can't take it in there.
God forgive them their
lack of charity.
Come.
No.
What are you up to now, Saul?
Metal pipes.
They weigh twice as
much as regular pucks.
How long have you been doing this?
About a month or so.
A workman gave them to me.
Make me stronger.
Marvellous.
Saul.
Nice skating.
Fred Kelly.
Fred has a team, Saul,
up in Manitouwadge.
The Moose.
We play tournaments on
rinks just like this one,
every weekend in the winter,
right up until breakup,
or till the forwards have to
wear flippers instead of skates.
Anyway...
we love hockey.
Trouble is, mill town teams don't
want nothing to do with us.
Because you can beat them?
Ah, because the white guys
think it's their game.
The reserves take a lot
of pride in their teams.
Even when it's 50-below,
there's a crowd out, watching.
Tell him what you're
thinking, Mr Kelly.
Most of our players, they
play junior-level hockey.
Right now, we're down a centre.
I was wondering if maybe...
you'd like to play with us?
Fred and his wife
lived at St. Jerome's
for eight years, Saul, and
I told Fred about you.
The Kellys offered to become
your legal guardians.
That means you can leave St.
Jerome's and go to Manitouwadge.
Attend a regular school.
You'll have a home.
A real home.
And I could play hockey?
All you can handle.
Yes.
Hockey is God's game.
It's the perfect combination
between human skill and passion.
That sport is brutal,
devoid of Christian values.
Saul's talent is miraculous.
Your responsibility is to
teach the children humility.
Father, he'll have the benefit
of a good home and schooling.
He has that here with us.
I don't know why Our Lord
chose to grace this boy,
but he did, and I've seen
it with my own eyes.
That shot he made at the
White River game...
That was a minor miracle.
How does this miracle help him
with the rest of his life?
Does it support his inner
strength, his faith in God?
When the hockey ends, he'll
have nothing, he'll be in Hell.
Sister, he has no relatives
that we know of.
If his parents are still
alive, they've abandoned him.
And now, to deny him
a nurturing family,
or suppress God-given gifts,
that's not what we stand for.
Father...
Do you want to go, Saul?
I'm going away, Lonnie.
You're gonna be all right, okay?
I want to go away too.
Look, it won't be long.
Summer comes, you'll be
old enough to leave here,
and we'll find each other.
No, we won't.
Sure we will.
Look, we'll go out in the bush,
we'll be trapping and fishing,
and we won't come back.
I want to go home.
Goodbye.
Saul... now, I've been thinking.
Hockey...
is like the universe.
If we were right in the heart
of it, we'd see chaos.
But you...
you see the order, the path,
the great spirit of the game.
That's what makes you
so extraordinary, Saul.
You have that spirit within you.
You are glory, Saul.
- Thank you, Father.
- Thanks, Fred.
"Manitouwadge..."
means "Cave of the Great Spirit."
Funny, since everyone
works in the mine.
That's why we're here.
Tough place, but it's work.
Next year, maybe
you'll work there too.
What do you think?
I like it.
That's good.
Took me and the boys a couple
years just to get that...
Fred. For Pete's sake,
the boy needs food
before he needs hockey.
Come on in.
Martha, this is Saul.
Hi. Welcome to our home.
Me and Martha have three sons.
Virgil is the only one
that's still living at home,
and he's captain of the Moose.
Kinda small.
Ah, he plays bigger.
He'll want to.
I bet it's been a while
since you've seen bannock.
Here, son. Here.
Jam?
Sorry.
So this used to be
Garrett's room...
It's your room now, though, Saul.
Is this the first time
you've had your own room?
Is it all right?
This is your home now.
You're not in that place any more.
You're safe here.
Thank you.
Welcome to the Moose, Saul.
Number 13, for good luck.
Here, try it on.
I wore that when I
was with the Moose.
Stand up.
Every reserve in the
north had a hockey team.
We travelled to tournaments
every few weeks.
Each team paid about $10 to play,
and the winner took
home a small purse.
They were the fastest and most
fluid players I had ever seen.
I was in awe of their
skill and strength,
and more than a little nervous.
That's what I call a game.
Good game, Saul.
All you guys, good game.
Now, that's what I call a game.
You didn't even score, man.
Who cares? Bambi did.
No overtime.
Hey, Moose.
The Johnson Mill Chiefs
are a Senior "A" team...
all mill and mine workers.
That don't mean they're any good.
They're more than good.
They were league
champions last year.
Playing tough teams
is the only way us Moose
are gonna get better.
You think it's an brand-new arena?
Definitely. I seen it.
Real dressing rooms with
showers and toilets.
Ernie'd go anywhere for a toilet.
Ladies and gentlemen,
tonight's visiting team,
the Manitouwadge Moose.
It's just another game.
Don't make it bigger
in your heads.
Play it like you always do.
Be Moose. Be Indians.
And now, your Johnson Mill team.
Oh, whoa, whoa, whoa.
Stay put, stay put.
You're the first star.
What's that?
There's three stars, like
on Hockey Night in Canada.
You got to go back out there.
No, I don't.
Have to. It's tradition.
Go.
Ladies and gentlemen, the
first star of the game,
Saul Indian Horse.
We just got a challenge
from another white team.
Everybody's gonna want to play us.
Guess those boys like
getting their asses kicked.
What?
They got shocked
seeing Indians skate.
Think it's their game. Not ours.
They play for the same
reasons we do, the feeling.
Nobody owns that.
Manitouwadge Moose.
Welcome to Honky Night
in Canada, boys.
Come on, boys. Come on.
Anybody spears you
is gonna pay for it.
Don't matter. I'll
keep finding the net.
Let them get the
penalties, not us.
Number 13. You're gonna
need an Indian hearse.
I'm sick of this.
Gonna scalp you, Indians.
That "Indian hearse" line
was pretty good, though.
Blanket-ass. Waggon-burner.
Nice friendly town they got here.
Pitcher of beer?
Did someone die?
The old Moose knuckle sandwich.
Yeah.
I'm hungry enough to
eat an Indian Horse.
Them other guys sure
wanted a bite of him.
Yeah. It's a good thing your face
got in the way of that guy's fist?
If it ain't the squaw-hoppers.
Win a little hockey tournament
and think you can come in here
and eat like white people?
What the hell you want?
You want to eat here, you're
gonna have to fight for it.
Is that right?
Sounds fun.
Save my spot, Saul.
I'll be right back.
You play a hell of a
game, little star.
That and the fact you're
a kid gives you a pass.
Wait your turn.
You can go next.
Are you okay?
What happened?
Let's get out of here.
Your turn.
Let's go.
Hey.
One thing for sure...
those were the tiniest bunch
of pricks I ever seen.
Saul?
Saul.
Saul. We got to go.
Move it, man. Everybody's waiting.
Coming.
Stop taking that cheap shit.
You're not a runt any more.
We're gonna scalp you, Injuns.
Guy's the coach for
that Toronto Monarchs.
It's a feeder team
for the Maple Leafs.
Says he'd like to
talk to you, Saul.
About what?
Jack Lanahan?
Saul Indian Horse.
Hi, Saul.
I'll leave you two to it.
So, Fred tell you why I'm here?
Some.
I'd like you to play for my team.
What do you think about that?
Not much.
With the right coaching and
environment, you could play pro.
You're incredibly fast.
You have a puck sense like
I've never seen before.
I'm happy playing with The Moose.
The great players are
conjurers, Saul.
They become one with the
game, and it lifts them up
and out of their lives.
That's what happens
to you, isn't it?
Yeah.
You make the ice
work for you, Saul.
That's why you should be
playing at a higher level.
You're wasted here.
So what the hell happened?
He wants me in Toronto.
When's it start? When you going?
I'm not.
What? You're kidding.
Don't want to.
Look, Bambi. That don't matter.
You got called.
We all play the game
wishing someday we'll
get the call to play
with the big boys.
Bambi.
I'm 26.
I've been working graveyards
in the freaking mines
since I was 16 years old.
You've got to give it
a shot for all of us.
If you don't go, you're a coward.
Let it beat you
without even trying.
And if you stay, I'll be
the one doing the beating.
What if I don't cut it?
You will.
You believe that?
I ain't the one who's
got to believe it.
It's time to go.
Saul...
I know you're torn about going.
I am so proud of you.
It takes great courage to
take something like this on.
I know you'll do good.
So let's go.
Some bannock and some
food for your trip.
Saul, don't forget us.
I'm gonna miss this place.
Manitouwadge?
Nothing to miss, really.
I feel like I grew up here.
Guess you did.
You were a pup when you got here.
You're like a brother to me.
I had a brother once.
What happened to him?
My dad never talks
about the school.
Mum neither.
And they don't say nothing about
what happened before that.
Same as you.
Maybe this is your chance to
rub the shit off the board
once and for all.
Okay, let's get this
show on the road.
Virgil...
thanks for everything.
Don't sound so damn final, Bambi.
You can come back any time.
Hey.
Fred.
You take good care of this kid.
He's special.
Welcome to Toronto, Saul.
This is my wife, Elissa.
Hi, Saul.
First time in the big city?
Yeah.
Remember.
You were a part of my
family for many years...
and you always will be.
You give it your best.
All right.
Just, make yourself at home.
The kitchen's that
way, fridge is full.
I'll go get you something.
Come on. I'll show you your room.
They all played for you?
They all stayed here.
They played for me on the
Monarchs, and ended up in the NHL.
A lot of great players
have slept in that bed.
They're saying Reggie Leach is
gonna tear up the record books.
He's an Indian kid just like you.
Oh yeah?
So there's been a trail
blazed for you, Saul.
So you had your choice of numbers
and you picked the only
one nobody ever wants?
I always had this number.
You don't think it's bad luck?
All right, men. See you out there.
Let's go, boys.
Hustle out there, guys.
Stick to the game plan, guys.
Let's go, let's go, let's go.
You make me look bad, I'll
knock your lights out.
Big game out there, big game.
Come on.
They wrote you up.
"Bright-eyed like
a painted warrior
bearing down on a waggon train.
In a tussle, he took
a player's scalp."
These guys have a way with words.
And you told the reporter
you learnt how to shoot
with a frozen horse turd.
Is that true?
Yeah.
That's one way to
learn stickhandling.
Don't worry about that, Saul.
They've just never seen
anyone like you before.
Saul.
I've been following you
with the Monarchs.
I can't believe I'm reading
about you in the newspapers.
A month into the season,
and you're already a star.
You're doing what you
always did, Saul...
you're making the
other players better.
It's a miracle how
far you've come.
I'm so proud of you.
I wish I could keep
following your career,
but the Church is sending me away.
Where are you going?
Africa.
To teach.
I... just wanted you to know.
The school...
What was happening there...
It was wrong.
You are glory, Saul.
Keep your head up, Chief.
Break it up.
Any more penalties,
he's out of the game.
You've got 22 points
in nine games.
Thanks.
We've lost seven of them.
You blaming me?
You've sat 120 minutes
in the penalty box.
I didn't bring you
here to be a goon.
I'm giving them what they
want, the crazy Redskin.
You're letting the
other teams rattle you
with stupid trash talk.
You know how to roll off a hit?
It's the same thing.
And what about the shit that's
coming from my own team?
You're not skating with
your buddies any more.
These guys may be hard
towing now, but believe me,
they'll take you
to the next level.
My buddies I could trust.
They had my back.
Saul...
every kid dreams of this moment.
I had dreams once.
I don't have them any more.
Saul, listen.
I know it's not
easy, but if Reggie
Leach can do it, you can too.
I promise you, get through
this, everything changes.
You're gonna make it to the show,
then you'll be a role model
for your kind.
My "kind"?
Yes. An inspiration.
You don't know a
damn thing about me.
All I need to know is you
got a gift like no other.
I've seen you on the ice.
I know what you can do, I
know how it makes you feel,
and I'm not blind to the
fact that it's killing you
not to play the way you can.
You got no idea what kills
me or my "kind," do you?
Listen to me, Saul.
It's all sitting
right there for you.
This is your way out.
Your way to a better life.
There is no better life for me.
There never will be.
I became a wandering nomad
with my eyes on distant hills.
I covered long charcoal
stretches of highway...
like a river
bearing me somewhere
beyond all recollection.
Lonnie?
It was a dim world, and
I felt dead inside.
Beyond thinking...
beyond emotion...
beyond hope.
You drink down, because after
all the roads you've travelled,
that's the only direction
you know by heart.
You can't sleep here.
Hey. You've got to get up.
You've made a mess of
your body and your liver.
Another bout of drinking
will likely kill you.
The Rising Dawn Centre's
just north of the city.
It's the best place
for Native people to get
help for their addictions.
Now, they've said they'll
take you, if you want it.
Good luck.
Then the cops...
they put me in that...
foster home.
I haven't seen my family since.
My grandma...
She could be dead.
I been too drunk to be looking.
Miigwech.
Thank you. Thank you, Karen.
Saul?
Would you like to share?
Have you ever wept, Saul?
No.
You need to find a
place where you can.
Here with us, or on your own...
but you need to find it.
Your silence is killing you.
He's a heathen.
Anishnaabe aawi.
That's a good boy.
That's mine. That's mine.
It's so good to see you so
excited about something.
Rules are rules.
If I break them for you, it
could ruin it for everybody.
Sometimes, ghosts linger.
They hover in the
furthest corners...
And when you least expect
it, they lurch out,
bearing everything they brought
to you when they were alive.
What have you got, Saul?
What is it?
Horse turd.
Oh.
Marvellous.
Come.
You are glory, Saul.
I came far to make this journey.
I could feel my family
and my ancestors.
It was here,
in this place...
where everything started
and everything ended.
I was with them again.
Mama.
Papa.
One day, my great-grandfather,
Shabogeesick,
walked out of the bush leading
a strange black animal.
Our people had never seen such
a creature, and were afraid.
"It is a horse," he told them,
"and it comes bearing
great teachings."
"A thunder will crash through
our hearts and minds,
and we must learn to ride
the horses of change."
"It is what the
future asks of us."
"Our survival depends on it."
Guys, let's do this.
Let's do this.
Come on, look alive, look alive.
Welcome to the Moose, Saul.
You always have a home here.
What do you think?
Hey.
Look who's here.
Saul.
Welcome back.
Welcome home, Bambi.
Hey, boys.
Look who's here.
About time.
Hey-hey.
Look who's here.
Good to see you, buddy.
Still a bag of antlers.
Good to see you too.
They were lost. They
didn't understand.
They didn't recognise
their parents.
anybody in their community.
Why was I like that?
Why didn't I speak up?
To this day, there's a lot of us
that don't know how to
speak our native tongue.
If you succeed in going
to school, that's great.
But I want my grandchildren
to know where I've been,
and, why I do the
things that I do.
It's up to we as a community
to bring back or have
that pride in our souls.
We have a beautiful,
incredible, beautiful
gift that was given to us
is our children.
But the more you talk about it,
the healing takes
place inside you.
My name is Julie Ozagosh.
My name is Shirley Ida Williams.
My name is Larry Theodore Jr.
My name is Saul Indian Horse.
And this is my story.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from OpenSubtitles.org